And even in the fastest model of this,
it's over two seconds of the back and
forth to actually get data. And two
seconds when you're trading for actual
highfidelity applications like Oracle
AMMs or perpetuals. This matters so
much. So I built a prototype for an
oracle just because he said he had some
people to show it to and he closed a
seed round within 3 weeks. So I never
thought that Salana would scale to this
size where it is taking over 85% of all
blockchain volume to this day. and he
injected $5 million to bump the price
up, way up. It's really crazy to say
that we're 300x the competition. But
it's true. A certain type of runtime
that is confidential from the rest of
the computer. Even if your computer has
a virus, they could not affect whatever
is in this little space. We give the
public key of our container. So anything
signed with that public key later on, we
know is our binary. Yeah. So we are
really hitting the limit of how low we
can get with this. Hello everyone,
welcome to another episode of One Devs
podcast. Today's is a special episode.
We have with us Dr. Bloxs, the CTO of
Switchboard. Welcome to the show, Dr.
Blocks.
>> Thank you so much. I'm very excited to
be here.
>> Dr. Bloxs, welcome to the podcast. Would
love to know your journey from the
beginning and what does Switchboard do
and you know, how did you get into
crypto? Which is the first question we
asked everyone.
>> Yeah, for sure. So just to kick it off
here uh for those who don't know
Switchboard is an oracle pro protocol
available on over 10 plus blockchains
and what's really unique about
Switchbird is that we've taken like this
first principle approach to how fast you
can get verifiable data. When you
actually think about data and what
oracles can actually provide today all
of these oracles actually come to
consensus on their own state layers and
they actually have this middleman before
they can actually stream anything to
user. The reason they have this is that
they all have these consensus models
that work a lot like blockchains that
exist today in which all these different
publishers publish to the state layer.
They come do some mathemat mathematical
operation on the confidence they have in
this data and then they relay this back
to users. And even in the fastest model
of this, it's over two seconds of the
back and forth to actually get data. in
two seconds when you're trading for
actual highfidelity uh uh uh
applications like Oracle AMMs or
perpetuals. This matters so much because
essentially anyone who is just streaming
from the actual price discovery source
can frontr run you and make sure that
you have a worse price or a worse
experience on chain. In that case,
onchain trading will never be as good as
some centralized system of trading. So
if we ever want to actually make onchain
trading the source of where people go to
so it's as good of an experience as a
centralized uh uh exchange you need to
actually match those speeds. So
Switchboard kind of redesigned the
entire model of how nodes can come to
consensus on data. And I have myself a
background in security and I actually uh
have some expertise in hardwarebased
proofs where you have special types of
chips that can actually prove the binary
they're running. All of switchboard uses
this technology in which an oracle can
actually prove exactly what operations
is doing and uh sign all of that with
this uh provided private key or public
key that you've actually proved is
running this confirmed or validated
oracle code. So what we can do with this
is that we can actually stream directly
from these price discovery sources and
sign this and put this on all these
different blockchains and still have
that verifiability that all these other
uh oracle uh platforms have. So with
this you can see a huge difference
actually a 300x speed improvement
relative to other oracles and it's
really really uh a pretty novel design
that nobody's uh really taken approach
for.
>> And how did you get into crypto? You
mentioned a bit about your background at
Google you know big tech. what made you
transition into crypto?
>> Sure. So, I actually have a background
in computer security. I taught computer
security for a few years and got a
masters in computer security and then
after a little stint at Facebook, I went
to Google for about 5 years where I
worked on embedded systems on home
network security and then I was a tech
lead on uh the Google cloud where I
worked on uh virtual private clouds.
From there, I was planning on uh going
more into the research route, but I had
a friend at the time uh that introduced
me to my co-founder, Chris, who actually
ran circles trading desk, and he saw
that Salana, especially at the time, was
an upcoming chain. So, I built a
prototype for an oracle just because he
said he had some people to show it to,
and he closed a seed round within 3
weeks. So, I decided if there was ever
time to go try this, it was going to be
now. So, that was almost 5 years ago
now. And to this day, we have about uh
$4 billion secured on the switchboard
network and 300x the uh latency
improvement to the runner up oracle and
18x the throughput for data. So, it's
really if you ever want to trade
perpetuals, it's uh going to be the
fastest and also safest way to do so.
>> Wow. You guys also won the 2021
hackathon, the DeFi track, right?
>> Yes. Yes. Way back.
>> It's a Yeah. crazy journey from a
hackathon project in 2021 to a project
that you know secures like four billion
plus TVL. Yeah.
>> Did you ever ever think, you know, when
you were writing code for the hackathon
that it would become this massive?
>> You know, while we're actually doing the
hackathon, we were coming up with all
these other teams in the space and
Salana wasn't even that big then. So, I
never thought that Salana would scale to
this size where it is taking over 85% of
all blockchain volume to this day. And
in that, I'm very fortunate to have
grown with it. So, I'm very very happy,
very fortunate. the people I've met in
this space who are just like these
smalltime dubs now run Jetto or run
Jupiter and it's just like oh wow you
know this is this is what the world has
come to now this is where it's focused
>> it's awesome
I'm kind of curious on the on you know
the nature of search board you these
oracles as I understand are also
permissionless and it's like people can
build their own oracles Right. So what
what exactly does it mean
and how how how do you know this
developers approach this permissionless
nature of the oracle right? Does it mean
I can plug in any source I any data feed
that I want? Uh how exactly does it
work?
>> Yeah. So there's actually two verticals
when you think about switchboard. One is
that low latency offering that I talked
about which is our product called
switchboard surge. That is the four
millisecond latency streaming that you
can get. But what we actually started
with and our and our uh original goal of
switchboard is to be an oracle building
platform. So you don't have to ask for
permission to get data on chain. And
with that you can go on our site and we
have this whole feed builder concept
where you can fetch data and then
transform data. So let's say you want
information from the US Treasury, you
can actually get that and then pull out
certain fields from their API and just
get that as a a data feed instantly. And
it's very funny for all this hype,
especially today, uh, for PIT and chain
link publishing US Treasury data.
Switchbird's been able to do that for
over four years. And I actually just
published one on Twitter just before
this call. So, I think it's kind of
funny that I don't think people
understand the actual practical
applications of this stuff other than
saying, oh, so and so was selected to
publish this. What? It's kind of a scop.
Sorry, but it doesn't really make sense.
You've been selected to publish it.
Anyone can go on the site and get the
data. So I don't know what you're what
you're talking about. You're selected to
view that site. Okay. Sure.
>> Interesting. So does this data get
validated? So there are two parts,
right? one where um you know you focus
on well-known feeds and there you get
the lowest latency possible to get the
price feed in and then you have another
source another source where people can
permissionlessly build their own feed
and that that goes over consensus. Is
that the right understanding or both are
the same both take the same path?
>> You can think of it this way. you have
set sources for the streaming service
that we have searched.
>> Okay,
>> that one's not as configurable, but all
of this data is being constantly
streamed into oracles. Then the other
side is if you build a data feed, what
we do on the Oracle side is we take a
check sum of the job description that
you actually want done by this oracle.
When you request an update, they will go
do that job as defined in your data
field and then they will sign the check
sum of that whole job. So you can prove
that the oracles did that work. In both
instances, all of the work done by
Oracle is signed by that TE, that
trusted execution environment. So you
know exactly what the oracle is
executing. You know it's executing as it
was defined in the approved binary. So
in both of these you're actually uh
running this in this confidential uh
runtime and whenever the Oracle is uh
requesting data from us Treasury.gov, of
you can actually verify that it pulled
it from there because the whole
encrypted connection is from within that
trusted execution environment. So you
can prove it fetched from there.
>> Got it. So so the the HTTPS like was
actually happened within the TE. So yes,
>> so we can prove that it was to that
site.
>> Got it. I know. So naturally there's
like a trade-off that you have to make
here, right? between you know securing
the feeds making sure the data is coming
from the right source versus keeping it
permissionless. So how do you I'm
curious to you know hear your thoughts
on h how do you factor these into your
engineering or product decisions?
>> So when we're actually running in tees
the hit on the runtime and CPU is about
5% of the capacity of the CPU. There's
two sides to permissionless. One is is
data feed creation permissionless that
is yes it's totally permissionless we
can actually request anything to be
processed from our um Oracle schema's
job description the other side is who
can actually run an oracle and join the
network that one is still gated a bit to
make sure that you can have proper
uptime because when you care about data
you want to actually know you have
certain parameters of uptime and
scalability of the people providing the
data but when they onboard their
machines they all have to onboard inside
the trusted exec execution environments
and prove the binary they're running
before we approve their keys for the
network. So we actually can prove the
exact binary they're allowing to sign
data on our network. So with that we can
actually have a lot of guarantees on
what these people can run. So there is a
gatekeeping just to make sure
performance uh checks are kept up but we
have a lot of integrity checks based off
of those binary hardwarebased proofs.
>> Interesting. I'm curious how do you deal
with things like for example when you're
pulling in data from an arbitrary uh
source right um how that source could
change at any point how do you I'm
assuming they you extract the data via
an expath or a JSON path so if any of if
the site changes any of that the feed
ends up breaking so
then that means that you don't get the
price so how is is that like a part of
do you are you able to you know identify
when such breakages happen or that's
outside of scope for the execution.
>> So when you make your own data feed you
can always ask us if we're in front of
you to help monitor this but you owning
the oracle it's up to you to to maintain
that and update that as you need.
>> Got it. So it's the uh you know the feed
owner's responsibility to make sure the
>> Yeah. Because we actually have no
capability of changing feeds that a
user's created. we can help on that uh
first-party side, the the switchboard
search, but if you're making your own
data feed, we can't we can't even alter
that.
>> I also um for example, a lot of the DeFi
attacks happen because of Oracle
manipulation, right? So, u
actually curious to I wanted to double
click on how you think about security
such that these type of manipulations do
not happen.
Yeah. Uh the biggest one and probably
most notable one is that Mango one that
happened on Salana. And what happened
there was Mango opened uh many
applications but one of them was their
lending platform and they allowed you to
open crossc collateral lending which is
the main benefit of most of this. Um
they always have it over collateralized
but it doesn't matter to an extent when
you have almost no liquidity. So in that
attack uh for Mango, they had a setup
where you could actually lend Mango MGO
to borrow ETH. And of course, Mango had
way less liquidity than ETH did. They
only had about $250,000 worth of
liquidity on open markets. So, what the
attacker Avi Eisenberg, as he's uh you
know, everyone knows now, um he actually
injected $5 million into the liquid
markets on Radium and on what was the
other big one at the time? Uh whatever
it whatever it was, I think it was FTX
that it was also on, funny enough. and
he injected $5 million to bump the price
up way up to uh I forgot what the scope
was, but it was it was in the factors of
10 uh 10x the price. Uh so when he
actually 10xed the price of Mango
because he just um bumped up the markets
because there was no liquidity, he
borrowed 10x the ETH he really should
have and then he let the price tank out.
Um and because he borrowed this and
Mango didn't have any real liquidity, he
just never paid back his loan. So he was
able to just take all that ETH. So even
if you have data on a specific token, if
you have no liquidity to make sure that
price is stable, you can't be using that
for lending markets for something as
liquid as ETH. You got to be you got to
be very conscious of the collateral
you're letting your users deploy when
the underlying price source is we'll say
malleable.
>> Makes sense. So in this case, there's
nothing switchboard can do, right? the
price across various dexes or sexes has
increased. Um the oracle is supposed to
spit out the right price and it's just
on the platform.
>> Yeah, it it that that's behaving as
designed.
>> Interesting. So in this case it was the
exploit was not
necessarily someone going and updating
the feed itself but it was doing it v
you know somewhere else that actually
reflected in the price increase. So the
the oracle ended up getting updated.
>> Yeah. So what happened is he ended up
affecting the true price of Mango for
about 25 minutes beyond any confidence
scale you would do with any T-wap as
well. So because it was so uh illquid
even with a TWOP and those security
checks to make sure there's confidence
between sources. It's
it comes down to how you design your
protocols to be safe when there's that
little liquidity. And of course with
Switchboard, there's plenty of ways to
actually check the uh liquidity. You can
make data feeds for liquidity as well
beyond just the pricing. That's what's
so powerful about having your own oracle
building platform. You don't need to
make it on price. You can make oracles
on how liquid assets are as well. that
this could also potentially allow them
to build their own circuit breakers that
you know if something is back then
>> we actually have a circuit breaker um
flow for the transformations where you
can bound certain values and allow the
feed to fail or fall back to a a
subsystem.
>> You you mentioned search right? So yes,
>> it also saw a new product announcement
where this it can do sub 10 millisecond
latency and you know 300x faster and 100
times cheaper. How does how does this
work? Like what's the magic behind this?
>> Yeah. So that's really the magic with
streaming via the trust execution
environments. All the oracles ex uh
Oracle systems that exist today have
their own L1 or L2 that acts as their
state layer. all the oracles that they
have publish their data to the state
layer and come to consensus on it. That
consensus time takes x amount of seconds
for the next block to be produced. For
them to relay that to the next user,
that also adds time and latency and back
and forth. So the whole time it takes
for these other oracles to confirm a
price is the price discovery time to get
to the oracle, then for them to commit,
then for them to come to consensus, and
then report back to the user. Because
switchboard verifies the runtime when
the oracles join the network, you can
stream right from the node and we've
done all that verification beforehand.
So when we're talking about the
latencies, even the closest oracle to us
is between 1.7 to 2.2 seconds behind
price discovery, which is a lot of time
for any adversary to frontr run you.
With Switchboard, you can stream
directly. And if you colllocate with the
price discovery source, our lower bound
right now is three to four milliseconds.
>> Interesting. So when you say stream,
does it stream directly to the the
client which constructs the transaction
or is it to the blockchain itself?
>> You can stream right to the client
constructing the constru the transaction
and we stream with signed prices for
whatever you subscribe to.
>> Got it. So this kind of flips the model,
right? because most of your price
updates are just since you since you are
testing them. These are u you know state
updates without any contention. So there
is so it doesn't really make sense to
add the latency overhead of the network
consensus on top of it. So testing it
kind of allows you to send it as a
signed input.
>> Yeah. So, we really have separated out
the verification of the actual
signatures from the streaming. And
because we're able to do that is why we
can be so much faster. And it's really
crazy to say that we're 300x the
competition, but it's true.
>> Yeah. is also I'm I'm curious to uh you
know
that for example multiple concurrent
leaders is like a ongoing topic where
you know as soon as an event happens you
want the ability to send the transaction
and also not just send the transaction
actually execute it with to the with the
closest leader right uh so how do you
see uh see something like switchboard
laid getting on top of the construction
like multiple concurrent leaders.
>> So when we actually have someone
consuming a price and sending
transactions, they're going to try to
send it to one of the leaders closest to
them. No matter what, we're going to
have that client that isn't the multiple
concurrent leaders. So they're just
going to be streaming from whatever node
is closest to them. So when the user is
assembling their transaction, that's the
person that's consuming the price. So
there's actually a separation between
the network that has the like let's say
three three or four leaders up here
versus the user versus switchboard over
here. So the user is going to be talking
to switchboard and streaming from there
and then the user then sends the
transaction to the multi multiple
leaders. So there's still that degree of
separation between having to track those
because the user user's geoloccation is
static.
>> Got it. But how do how so this is on the
client side for onchain programs which
you know rely on external inputs.
So what does the latency look like for
them? They still need the data on on the
chain so that they can verify it. what?
>> So, so the question I believe you're
asking now is since the user still has
time to confirm their transaction, the
data is going to be at least that stale.
So when it comes to the user's
perspectives, no matter any oracle you
have to get the data on chain and it's
going to have to land into a block. So
that part is a bit unavoidable for
whatever you want to post whether it be
data or not. But there's two things
coming right now. one, I'm not sure how
much you've heard about Jetto's BAM
protocol where validators can actually
inject uh transactions into a block
themselves. And in that way, the
validators are actually one ones pulling
the oracle price instead of the user. So
that would help in uh a lot because then
you you don't have to wait for the
normal schedule to pack the oracle
transactions to the block. They can uh
basically be prioritized. And the other
is when the with the release of Alpen
Alpenlow, excuse me, um they're allowing
validators to plug into certain types of
block ordering systems which might
prioritize oracles as well from their
side. So there might be a world very
soon that the users no longer pulling
the oracle updates. It becomes the
validators like you're saying that
multi-leer scheduling service and then
it becomes well how close are those
leaders to the price discovery source
because there's two things to think
about there. No matter what, in
decentralized uh environments like
Salana, they're going to be all over the
world. And a lot of the price discovery
for major uh uh for major tokens is in
Tokyo because that's where Binance's um
um um order matching engine is. So, and
OKX is is over there as well. So, a lot
of this is in Tokyo. But no matter what,
the speed of light around the Earth is
131 milliseconds. So, you're going to
hit a little bit of a latency increase
just because we can't control what
people put their or um their Salana
nodes and how to they pull that price.
So, we can do a lower bound when the
user's pulling it, but if it's going to
be prices pulled by the leaders instead
of the users,
then they're going to hit some price um
some latency increase just because
if someone's running a node in United
States, they're not by Tokyo. We can't
help that.
And and also collocating will help you
on some of these network hops, right? If
you're collocated with the leader, then
you know these can hit very very quickly
versus having an additional network.
>> Yeah, I mean there are some um networks
that are trying to just colllocate. Um
Pithnet actually has eight of their 10
nodes in Amsterdam and I know they're
actually launching Fogo for this exact
reason. Whether the Salon community is
happy about that or not, not for me to
say, but they are doing that and it's
it's a valid reason. It's it's gonna
increase the speeds, but it's going to
limit who can actually run these um the
network, you know, pretty substantially.
>> And also this is like a very different
approach from a pool based oracle system
to like a complete streaming based,
right? I also saw saw in your
documentation that you have a this type
a bundle which you can
>> yep
>> use to kind of pipe transactions or pipe
the data directly without needing to
have an data feed account. How do how do
bundles work?
>> Yeah. So you know just for reference
back in 2021 to 2023 Switchboard was
doing like 3 to 7% of all Salana traffic
and we saw we learned a lot doing that.
One was
holding right locks on accounts in the
SVM environment slows you down a ton and
it was a huge headache trying to land
data first. So we took a new approach of
getting rid of accounts completely and
getting rid of the accounts actually
lets you stream much faster because the
um block ordering engine lets you put in
your transaction way quicker because you
don't actually hold any right locks at
all. So by doing this we can actually
allow uh confirmation time for oracle
data to be way faster than it ever was
before and that helps significantly for
the speed of data that you see on chain.
So that's why we have this new model.
You don't need to make any accounts for
getting data on chain and it's very very
optimized for that way.
>> What do the landing rates look like? Is
it like finance of landing rate with so
much optimization
>> with all of this? And actually, we've
gotten our compute unit usage down to
about 124 compute units. And just for
reference, setting priority fees on your
transaction is 300 compute units. It is
just about free. So you almost always
see next slot landing.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah,
>> it's insane.
>> Yeah.
>> You also me mentioned sale, right? I
remember hearing this in your talk at
Scala. Uh
So c can you talk a little bit more
about sale? I I mean my understanding is
that sale is the one that sits behind
surge.
>> Correct. Correct. So we actually have
had a lot of experience with trust
execution environments specifically AMD
set. Um they are defin there's
definitely a large learning curve to
start understanding hardware proofs. And
to make this easier just for the team,
we've actually developed a framework to
make all of the trusted execution
environment logic and all these sys
calls abstracted just to a docker
container and we give you an SDK to do
proving and verifying of tees. So it's
just two calls. You say okay prove your
docker container is what it says and
then verify another docker container.
And then sale is just a very simple
abstraction to run
a docker container in AMD said without
even having to understand what the
hardware level uh uh steps are. So sale
is an abstraction away from tees. So
it's really easy and accessible for
normal devs.
>> What what is uh I think it's worth
double clicking on what AMD said. What
is AMD said?
>> Yeah. So AMD as you know is a chip
manufacturing company and every single
chip manufacturing company has a certain
feature set and they're the actual goal
of this feature set is to make a certain
type of runtime that is confidential
from the rest of the computer. Even if
your computer has a virus, they could
not affect whatever is in this little
space. And whatever is in this little
space, you can actually prove the binary
that you're loading into the space. And
what this uh whole runtime is is called
AMD SMP and it lets you um
confidentially run something without the
host being able to modify it. And with
that you can actually prove you're
running inside AMD SMP by creating
something called an add astation report.
And by creating that report you could
say hey I was loaded into this AMD S&P
chip and this is the binary that was
loaded. I'm going to sign this with the
certificate signed by the chip
manufacturer to prove this is the binary
and I'm running in this in this runtime
and then anyone can go and verify that
in that way we actually make hardware
proofs for all of the oracles running
switchboard because AMD has actually
signed off saying hey this binary is
running in this subsection of our chips
and this was the hash of the binary
that's running in them.
>> Interesting. So does it mean that I can
use sale to build any type of deploy any
type of arbitrary containers?
>> Yeah, you can use it to deploy any type
of arbitrary container and you can have
those convenience methods to prove and
verify they're doing exactly what you're
saying. And then what we do is in that
proof we give the public key of our
container. So anything signed with that
public key later on we know is our
binary.
>> Interesting. So this is kind of for
example you have AWS nitro and there's
also in the decentralized world you have
fallen network and their data right so I
I have we we can switch to the get into
the fun questions so I saw you made two
tweets today right I also it must be
super early for you right you're in New
York did did you were you did you were
you coding all night
>> I was actually I was up all night stuff
that's kind of my uh MO though I don't
really sleep.
>> Nice. So, so you made two tweets like
one where you know the first one was
around Oracle updates which got the 124
CU
>> and then
to that and also in one of your replies
you mentioned that this is like just raw
pointer math.
>> Yes.
>> Curious to hear more about like what
that was.
>> Yeah. So when we actually do signature
verifications, I would say that Pith is
the other one that's very prominent
onchain. They actually verify uh
signatures on a Merkel route that they
have for the proofs for all of their
data feeds. But this is all in memory.
And this actually costs hundreds of
thousands of compute units, which is
hard to fit in a block because basically
fitting transactions in a block by the
leader on Salana is basically a knapsack
problem. They're trying they have a
limit for how many CUS can fit in a
block.
>> Yeah. Hundreds of thousands of CUS
limits you a ton on when you can be
included. So unless you're doing special
priorit prioritization, that's pretty
hard. What we've worked very hard now to
do is lower the compute unit usage as
much as possible to actually be almost
free for the block leader to include in
the next slot. And the reason we've done
this mostly is because of the advent of
Oracle AMMs. All of these Oracle AMMs
have actually dominated spot pricing
now. So much so it's over 60% of all
Jupiter traffic is going to Oracle based
AMMs. And if you want to be competitive
with Oracle AMMs, they actually have
been using their custom rollups because
we have just launched Surge about a
month ago and no Oracle could support
the speeds you needed for spot pricing.
But now since we are 4 millisecond
latency, we are 124 compute units. We
are less than it takes to to set your um
gas fees. It really does make sense for
any general purpose prop amm to use
these ultra efficient slim oracles.
>> Interesting. So how do these prop amms
work? Do they do they have their own
feeds and they just call you to update
the price?
>> So we are talking to a few to that are
looking to migrate to us right now
because humidify last two weeks has
entered the space and they're taking
about all of the traffic now. Humidify
by itself is doing I think over 40% of
Jupiter traffic just because of how
often they're updating their spreads.
And what Oracle AMMs do is they look at
a price offchain and if that is deviated
even by a few bips from the price
onchain what they do is they submit an
oracle update saying hey we are going to
allow the pricing to be this much below
the liquidity pool. the liquid pool is
autop pricing and saying we're just
going to buy it at this price and then
sell it offchain um as fast as we can
and what they are doing is they're
basically taking on risk on chain and
then hedging offchain because they know
there's that price discrepancy so it's
basically an AMM built for arbitrage
>> interesting
>> so they are basically live arbing
between these centralized exchanges and
the prices on chain so as long as they
can do that that's great but you need an
oracle for that offchain pricing and
what they do is every single slot they
are pushing and pushing updates out and
if you look at Sulfi's transaction they
are pushing two updates per slot but
it's a little bit delayed and they are
consuming about 8,000 to 9,000 compute
units for every single update which is a
little bit slower
>> then also it's like order of magnitude
difference right 124 CU and like you
know 8,000 plus
>> yeah so we are really hitting the limit
of how low we can get with this and I'm
trying to get lower for some pointer
loads it's actually consuming about uh
compute units. And I figure that's
probably the SV I'm just doing a page
load. But if I can get rid of that, I
think I could I'm trying to figure it
out. Maybe I'll try to do like a a
linked module purely an assembly. Um
maybe I could get it lower to 20 or so
CUS, but that's kind of hopeful.
>> You also tweeted another one saying
maybe I optimized too much. What what
exactly? Oh, well, last night I actually
found a bug in the Rust uh one um 1.90
compiler uh that I caused it to crash
while I was compiling the code. Whoops.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. I'm curious to hear more like
what does the engineering culture at
Switchboard look like? How do you guys
hire?
>> Yeah, so we have a pretty lean team.
We're about nine or so people and uh
everyone on the team is just super
passionate about the project because
they love building just making. So I
really look for people with just that
fire and that in that and that passion
to see like how much impact we actually
have especially on this lawn space and
the people I work with just really love
building it and I get along with them
too. We just sit on stack calls most of
the day and uh grind together. I would
love to have everyone in a single space
but we are a remote first uh uh office.
Nice.
So, are all all of this like based
they're all distributed over the world
or they're all in in the US?
>> Uh, mostly in the US, but then we have
Dubai and South Africa.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah, I'm very jealous of all the
pictures I see of South Africa. Looks
beautiful. So, I'm planning on
>> Yeah, South Africa is beautiful. I was
there for the Cape 8 by Cape Town. Wow,
what a beautiful country.
>> Amazing.
>> Uh, are are you hiring for any roles?
We'll make sure if you're hiring, we'll
make sure to put the job description on
the part podcast when it goes out.
>> We're not hiring just yet, but we have a
lot of uh releases coming out in the
next two weeks in which after that we
are looking to hire about two roles and
I can let you know for that. We can
promote that uh uh midseptember.
>> Okay, fantastic. I think by the time
this comes out the edit table it would
definitely be
>> perfect
>> after
>> awesome.
>> So yeah what's if and also you guys do a
lot of open source stuff for you know
the developers in the audience listening
to this is there anything that you would
recommend for them to get started on or
where do they you know how do they
navigate their way around the GitHub so
that they can contribute to switchboard?
Yeah, if they want to contribute to
switchboard, I think um you know I've
done a lot of optimizations on the Rust
side of course, but we have all of the
applications we're building on all these
other chains. If you want any features,
especially on the move chains because we
have a lot of traffic on the move chains
as well. Do let me know if feature
requests or if you want to help build
out some of the new SDKs we have for
search, let me know. I'm more than happy
to to to take the recommendations of of
the community on what you'd like to see
built on that side just for your
convenience.
>> It's awesome. I think we are towards the
end of the podcast. Thank you so much
for joining us, Dr. Blogs. It's been a
pleasure having you on.
>> Yeah. No, it's been great. Thanks for
having me and looking forward to it.
>> Yeah, absolutely. We hope you could I I
know you have leases coming up, but hope
you could join us in Mumbai.
>> I'm very tempted to never been to India.
I would, you know, I I'll see what I can
do. Honestly, I would love to come.
>> Awesome. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.